this version of the video game Grand
Theft Auto is on pace to shatter all
kinds of records by Christmas it's
expected to sell nine million copies and
bring in 450 million dollars the perfect
gift to celebrate the birth of our Lord
with that kind of cash the gaming
industry can't afford the Grand Theft
Auto to receive an adults-only rating
even though it it features nudity
prostitution cop-killing murder the
adult rating would keep the game out of
stores like family friendly Walmart and
God forbid that happens instead the
ratings board is given Grand Theft Auto
a safer rating for M for Mature I think
that's what am I think M stands for
money but they say it stands for mature
Carol I mean Cheryl K Olson is the
co-author of grand theft childhood the
surprising truth about violent video
games Cheryl is the surprising truth
about video games that we should all
relax I wouldn't say we should all relax
but I think some of the big fears like
school shootings and you know terrifying
stuff there just isn't evidence for that
the FBI and Secret Service have done
reports that pretty much like that to
rest but as a parent there are some
things to worry about we did some
research surveying seventh and eighth
grade kids in two states and we did find
that the more in rated games they played
the more likely they were to be involved
in common childhood problems like
getting in fights having poor grades
trouble with a teacher but most of the
kids did not have those problems one
thing that is a concern that really
worried me a little bit was that almost
half of the boys 12 and 13 year old boys
are playing a grand theft auto game a
lot so if you don't allow your child to
have it at your house he probably would
play it somewhere so you need to have a
talk with him about your values right
right so you I mean you don't think that
there's a problem with with our kids
play I mean it doesn't do anything for
the kids the way they view women if
they're you know they're allowed to play
a game where you can get a hooker and
then you know have sex with her and then
beat her to death with a baseball bat it
sounds great I what's interesting we did
focus groups with boys who play the
violent games that a lot of them didn't
even know you could find prostitutes or
do those things in the game because you
don't need to do those to win the game
and some kids just drive around or they
sometimes they work for the police or
deliver pizzas it's almost
a big sandbox in a way and it's
interesting to watch how your child
plays it if you choose to let them do it
under supervision because it might tell
you some things about them I will tell
you that all these video gamers who are
writing bloggers you know they're
bloggers as well as video gaming they're
writing all kinds of stuff about me
saying you know that I'm just dig you
know I'm the enemy now of video game i
get i care less about video game video
game bloggers they're losers but video
gamers I don't really care although I
did hear that this game gives you a
leprosy I don't know if that's true the
everybody the problem is everybody
dismisses this game and I'm not even
saying this game is you know this is
what's destroying society it's magazines
it's movies it's television it's even
talk radio it's it's everything that is
leading us to a more coarse society and
yet everyone dismisses their favorite
little part of it isn't that a problem
there have been worries about the latest
media ever since the 1890s when the
paperback novel came out was going to
corrupt our young women in the 1930s
they thought that showing gangster films
would teach kids how to commit crimes
like how to blow up trains but there is
a one difference here with the the video
games I think it's that parents don't
know how to operate the controls so you
don't know what's in there that's scary
as a parent you can't flip through it or
fast-forward to see what's there okay
Cheryl thanks a lot